[Android] Add support for react native appearance in Expo Client (#6162)
expo/expo: docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/appearance.md

title: Appearance
---

> Detect preferred color scheme (`light`, `dark`, `automatic` or `no-preference`) on iOS 13+ and Android 10+.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Detect preferred color scheme (`light`, `dark`, or `no-preference`) on iOS 13+ and Android 10+.
```

`automatic` won't be returned by `Appearance.getColorScheme()` only [light, dark, and no-preference](https://github.com/expo/react-native-appearance/blob/4022f579b07469b1e0ff4fabf113827a7a4c43d2/src/Appearance.types.ts#L1)

## Installation

To install this API in a [managed](../../introduction/managed-vs-bare/#managed-workflow) or [bare](../../introduction/managed-vs-bare/#bare-workflow) React Native app, run `expo install react-native-appearance`. In bare apps, make sure you also follow the [react-native-appearance linking and configuration instructions](https://github.com/expo/react-native-appearance#linking).

## Configuration

You can configure supported appearance styles in managed apps inside `app.json` with the `userInterfaceStyle` key. You can also configure specific platform to support different appearance styles by setting either `android.userInterfaceStyle` or `ios.userInterfaceStyle` to preferred value.

> Available options are `automatic` (follow system appearance settings and notify about any change user makes), `light` (restrict app to support light theme only) or `dark` (restrict app to support dark theme only).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The available options are: `automatic` (follow system appearance settings and notify about any change user makes), `light` (restrict app to support light theme only), and `dark` (restrict app to support dark theme only).
```

> If this key is absent, the `light` style will be forced.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If this key is absent, the app will default to the `light` style.
```

Example `app.json` configuration:
```json
{
  "expo": {
    "userInterfaceStyle": "automatic",
    "ios": {
      "userInterfaceStyle": "light"
    },
    "android": {
      "userInterfaceStyle": "dark"
    }
  }
}
```

In bare apps:
- **iOS**: you can configure supported styles with the [UIUserInterfaceStyle](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/bundleresources/information_property_list/uiuserinterfacestyle) key in your app `Info.plist`.

> - **Android**: please follow steps from [`react-native-appearance` repo](https://github.com/expo/react-native-appearance#configuration).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Android**: please follow steps from the [`react-native-appearance` repo](https://github.com/expo/react-native-appearance#configuration).
```
